docs: Add Sapphire frontend guide (#271)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/dapp/sapphire/browser.md

---
description: Writing Sapphire dApp for browser and Metamask
---

# Browser Support

Confidential Sapphire dApps work in web browsers by wrapping the
Metamask extension for signing and encrypting transactions.

Let's begin with the [Hardhat boilerplate]. As mentioned on their website
the boilerplate provides the following:

- The Solidity contract implementing an ERC-20 token
- Tests for the entire functionality of the contract
- A minimal React front-end to interact with the contract using ethers.js

Go ahead and clone the original [Hardhat boilerplate repo]. Move to the checked
out folder and apply the Sapphire-specific changes to the Hardhat config file
as described in the [quickstart].

Install dependencies and deploy the contract on the Testnet:

```
pnpm install
pnpm add -D @oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime

> PRIVATE_KEY="0x..." pnpm hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network sapphire

Reviewer: I would hope that our developers are aware enough to set an actual private key, but maybe not?

Author: Mentioned this above.

---
description: Writing Sapphire dApp for browser and Metamask
---

# Browser Support

Confidential Sapphire dApps work in web browsers by wrapping the

> Metamask extension for signing and encrypting transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ethereum provider to enable signing and encryption calls and transactions.
```
calls may be signed
txs are already signed
both may be encrypted

Author: > both may be encrypted

Can a user or dapp control whether the tx will be encrypted or not?

Author: Looking at https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/blob/main/clients/js/src/compat.ts the envelope is always encrypted, if the cipher object is not overriden right? Perhaps we should add this information (encrypted yes/no) as EIP712 attribute?

Let's begin with the [Hardhat boilerplate]. As mentioned on their website
the boilerplate provides the following:

- The Solidity contract implementing an ERC-20 token
- Tests for the entire functionality of the contract
- A minimal React front-end to interact with the contract using ethers.js

Go ahead and clone the original [Hardhat boilerplate repo]. Move to the checked
out folder and apply the Sapphire-specific changes to the Hardhat config file
as described in the [quickstart].

Install dependencies and deploy the contract on the Testnet with the private

> key of the account holding some TEST tokens:

Reviewer 2: link to faucet howto?

@@ -360,14 +370,14 @@
       return true;
     }
 
-    this.setState({ 
-      networkError: 'Please connect Metamask to Localhost:8545'
+    this.setState({
+      networkError: 'Please connect to Sapphire ParaTime Testnet'
     });
 
     return false;
```

Beside the obvious change to the chain ID and wrapping ethers.js objects with the
Sapphire wrapper you probably noticed that we initialized **two** contract
instances:

- `this._token` object will be used for unsigned queries by Metamask and thus
  no annoying popups will be shown to the user (this is the Hardhat way of
  [setting `from` transaction field to all zeros][guide-transaction-calls]).
  Queries which do not rely on the `msg.sender` field can be performed this 
  way.
  TODO: Are such transactions encrypted?
- `this._tokenWrite` object will use Metamask to sign and encrypt the
  `eth_call` query or the on-chain transaction (TODO: is this true?). The user will need to confirm
  such action each time.

### Trying it

Start the frontend by typing `pnpm run start`. If all goes well the web server
will spin up and your browser should automatically open
`http://localhost:3000`.

> ![Hardhat boilerplate frontend](../images/sapphire/hardhat-boilerplate-frontend1.png)

Reviewer 3: Images could be optimized from 134KB to 29KB with commands from https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/commit/01a93e12cefa5cf09d2103a3e1a69f05d40068c8

Optimized:
[hardhat-boilerplate-frontend1.png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3758846/199121768-23d8f9b3-f80b-44eb-8600-b14489add73e.png)
[hardhat-boilerplate-frontend2.png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3758846/199121771-1f30f703-d62e-4f95-8a5f-7646be9abe67.png)
[hardhat-boilerplate-frontend3.png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3758846/199121773-371a2356-5f8a-4e71-8e19-6fef4f46dcc1.png)

Author: Cool! FYI I needed to run `npx @squoosh/cli` to work.

Go ahead and connect the wallet. If you haven't done it yet, you will have
to add the Sapphire ParaTime Testnet network to your Metamask (get the configuration
[here](README.mdx)). Once connected, the frontend will make a call to the
`balanceOf` external view and show you the amount of `MHT`s in your selected
Metamask account.

![MHT balance of your account](../images/sapphire/hardhat-boilerplate-frontend2.png)

Next, let's transfer some `MHT`s. Fill in the amount, the address and hit the
*Transfer* button. Metamask will show you the popup to confirm the transfer.
Once confirmed, Metamask will both **sign and encrypt** the transaction.

![Sign and encrypt the transfetr transaction](../images/sapphire/hardhat-boilerplate-frontend3.png)

Once the transaction is processed, you will get a notification from Metamask
and the balance on our dApp frontend will be updated.

:::tip

> If you commented out emitting the `transfer` event, the transfer of `MHT`s was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you commented out emitting the `emit Transfer(...)`, the transfer of `MHT`s would have been
```

access them!**

:::warning

The contract in the Hardhat boilerplate is ERC-20-compatible and emits the
`transfer` event. If your wish to preserve confidentiality, you can comment
out [line 66]. Read [the guide](guide.mdx#contract-logs) to learn more.

:::

## Frontend

Move into the `frontend` folder and install dependencies:

```shell
pnpm install
pnpm add -D @oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime
```

### `http` caveat

The `@oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime` npm package for wrapping Web3 objects
uses `http` internally for validating the Sapphire endpoint certificates. Since
the browser supports validating certificates natively, this package is only
required in the Node.js environment. Unfortunately, there is no simple way to
convince Webpack in React not to bundle `http` along when compiling the app for
the browser ([learn more][React Webpack issue]).

To overcome this, do the following:

1. Add `react-app-rewired` dependency:

  ```shell
  pnpm add -D react-app-rewired
  ```
   
2. Configure it by creating `config-overrides.js` with the following content:

  ```js title="frontend/config-overrides.js"
  module.exports = function override(config, env) {

>     okv = {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    const okv = {
```
so it isn't a global variable

(and I don't know what "okv" means)

Author: This react-rewire hack is not needed anymore now, @nhynes fixed it upstream.

      fallback: {
        https: false,
      },
    };
  
    if (!config.resolve) {
      config.resolve = okv;
    } else {

>       config.resolve.fallback = { ...config.resolve.fallback, ...okv.fallback };

Reviewer: This looks weird to me because of the three dots, but I don't do js, so it may be ok?
